Now in the last video, we already saw a way how we can store some data on our general http object, how
we could for example configure the root route or the route URL of all our requests.
That's nice,
sometimes you want to do a bit more than that though, sometimes you really want to step in on a request
and or on a response and intercept it.
Now vue resource allows you to set up such interceptors which are executed upon each request or each
response very easily.
The place to create such an interceptor is here where we configure our vue instance or where
we start our root vue instance and where we added the vue resource package, there on the http object again, I can
access interceptors which is an array of functions we want to execute on each request
basically. Here we can push a new interceptor on this array, all interceptors in this array will be executed
and there, the function has the following structure,
it gets the request and it gets a second argument which I will call next because this is a function
we then can execute to allow the request to continue on because most of the time, you don't want to let
your request
end in this function,
but in order to allow it to travel on, you need some callback function to execute
once you're done doing things with the request. Now in this function, you may do whatever you like,
for example you can print the request right into our log or of course also modify it.
You could change the request, you could change the request method to put for example here and let's see
what this will do,
let's enhance this a bit, let's see
we want to check the request method whether it's post and if it is post, we want to change it to put.
So get requests will still be able to make it through but post requests will be converted into a put
request and we will also see what this will do on our backend on firebase and thereafter again, we have
to execute next.
Well okay, let's see how this will work out, if
I now go to the application and reload this and I create a new user here and I will open up my console
and, whoops, like this,
clear it and hit submit,
we see the request was printed here, the request here is of type put because it's an object,
so even though we print it before changing it, it is changed here because objects are reference types
and if we have a look at the firebase console, we see that our data node
now changed. It no longer has these cryptic IDs,
instead we immediately see the email and username here
and if I submit a new user, we now see this got overridden.
So this is the difference between put and post on firebase, post creates new resources and appends it to the
existing ones
hence the need for a unique identifier, this cryptic string.
Well put
always overrides the old data,
that's just a side note on how to use that on firebase.
The cool thing we see here is though that we were able to use our own interceptor here, check the request,
you will see get requests still work though the data is not output correctly of course because well
we still have a method set up which extracts it differently but we see that now we're successfully intercepting
all requests we're sending and exchanging the method in case it is a put request.